---
title: "Zig version 0.15.1"
link: "https://lwn.net/Articles/1034583/"
date: 2025-08-20
---

<p>
The Zig project has
<a href="https://ziglang.org/download/0.15.1/release-notes.html">announced</a> version 0.15.1 of the language. The release, much like the
<a href="https://lwn.net/Articles/1012809/">last one</a>, includes incremental progress toward the goal of completely dropping LLVM and improving compile time, as well as a handful of breaking changes as the language team wrestles with past API design. The biggest change this time around is to the standard library <tt>Reader</tt> and <tt>Writer</tt> interfaces, which have been completely rearranged in the name of performance and reducing unneeded copies.
</p>

<blockquote class="bq">
<p>
All existing std.io readers and writers are deprecated in favor of the newly provided <tt>std.Io.Reader</tt> and <tt>std.Io.Writer</tt> which are non-generic and have the buffer above the vtable - in other words the buffer is in the interface, not the implementation. This means that although Reader and Writer are no longer generic, they are still transparent to optimization; all of the interface functions have a concrete hot path operating on the buffer, and only make vtable calls when the buffer is full.
</p>
<p>
These changes are extremely breaking. I am sorry for that, but I have carefully examined the situation and acquired confidence that this is the direction that Zig needs to go. I hope you will strap in your seatbelt and come along for the ride; it will be worth it.
</p>
</blockquote>

Original link: https://lwn.net/Articles/1034583/